doc: matter: Update docs for the NCS 2.7.0 release (#16117)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/protocols/matter/getting_started/hw_requirements.rst

   .. tab:: nRF52840 DK

      The following table lists memory requirements for samples running on the :ref:`nRF52840 DK <programming_board_names>` (:ref:`nrf52840dk/nrf52840 <zephyr:nrf52840dk_nrf52840>`).

      +----------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------------+------------+-------------+---------------------------------+

>       | Sample                                                               |   MCUBoot ROM |   Application ROM |   Factory data |   Settings |   Total ROM |   Total RAM (incl. static HEAP) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      | Sample                                                               |   MCUboot ROM |   Application ROM |   Factory data |   Settings |   Total ROM |   Total RAM (incl. static HEAP) |
```

      | :ref:`Window Covering <matter_window_covering_sample>` (Debug + LTO) |            28 |               680 |              4 |         32 |         744 |                             178 |
      +----------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------------+------------+-------------+---------------------------------+
      | :ref:`Window Covering <matter_window_covering_sample>` (Release)     |            28 |               641 |              4 |         32 |         705 |                             169 |
      +----------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------------+------------+-------------+---------------------------------+

   .. tab:: nRF5340 DK

      The following table lists memory requirements for samples running on the :ref:`nRF5340 DK <programming_board_names>` (:ref:`nrf5340dk/nrf5340/cpuapp <zephyr:nrf5340dk_nrf5340>`).

      +----------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------------+------------+-------------+---------------------------------+

>       | Sample                                                               |   MCUBoot ROM |   Application ROM |   Factory data |   Settings |   Total ROM |   Total RAM (incl. static HEAP) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      | Sample                                                               |   MCUboot ROM |   Application ROM |   Factory data |   Settings |   Total ROM |   Total RAM (incl. static HEAP) |
```

      | :ref:`Window Covering <matter_window_covering_sample>` (Debug + LTO) |            32 |               607 |              4 |         32 |         675 |                             187 |
      +----------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------------+------------+-------------+---------------------------------+
      | :ref:`Window Covering <matter_window_covering_sample>` (Release)     |            32 |               567 |              4 |         32 |         635 |                             176 |
      +----------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------------+------------+-------------+---------------------------------+

   .. tab:: Thingy:53

      The following table lists memory requirements for samples running on the :ref:`Thingy:53 <programming_board_names>` (:ref:`thingy53/nrf5340 <zephyr:thingy53_nrf5340>`).

      +-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------------+------------+-------------+---------------------------------+

>       | Sample                                                            |   MCUBoot ROM |   Application ROM |   Factory data |   Settings |   Total ROM |   Total RAM (incl. static HEAP) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      | Sample                                                            |   MCUboot ROM |   Application ROM |   Factory data |   Settings |   Total ROM |   Total RAM (incl. static HEAP) |
```

      | :ref:`Weather Station <matter_weather_station_app>` (Debug + LTO) |            64 |               661 |             16 |         48 |         789 |                             240 |
      +-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------------+------------+-------------+---------------------------------+
      | :ref:`Weather Station <matter_weather_station_app>` (Release)     |            64 |               594 |             16 |         48 |         722 |                             210 |
      +-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------------+------------+-------------+---------------------------------+

   .. tab:: nRF7002 DK

      The following table lists memory requirements for samples running on the :ref:`nRF7002 DK <programming_board_names>` (:ref:`nrf7002dk/nrf5340/cpuapp <nrf7002dk_nrf5340>`).

      +----------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------------+------------+-------------+---------------------------------+

>       | Sample                                                         |   MCUBoot ROM |   Application ROM |   Factory data |   Settings |   Total ROM |   Total RAM (incl. static HEAP) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      | Sample                                                         |   MCUboot ROM |   Application ROM |   Factory data |   Settings |   Total ROM |   Total RAM (incl. static HEAP) |
```

      | :ref:`Thermostat <matter_thermostat_sample>` (Debug + LTO)     |            48 |               828 |              4 |         32 |         912 |                             279 |
      +----------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------------+------------+-------------+---------------------------------+
      | :ref:`Thermostat <matter_thermostat_sample>` (Release)         |            48 |               804 |              4 |         32 |         888 |                             267 |
      +----------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------------+------------+-------------+---------------------------------+

   .. tab:: nRF54l15 PDK

      The following table lists memory requirements for samples running on the :ref:`nRF54l15 PDK <programming_board_names>` (:ref:`nrf54l15pdk/nrf54l15/cpuapp <nrf54l15pdk_nrf54l15>`).

      +----------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------------+------------+-------------+---------------------------------+

>       | Sample                                                               |   MCUBoot ROM |   Application ROM |   Factory data |   Settings |   Total ROM |   Total RAM (incl. static HEAP) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      | Sample                                                               |   MCUboot ROM |   Application ROM |   Factory data |   Settings |   Total ROM |   Total RAM (incl. static HEAP) |
```

      The following table lists memory requirements for samples running on the :ref:`nRF52840 DK <programming_board_names>` (:ref:`nrf52840dk_nrf52840 <zephyr:nrf52840dk_nrf52840>`).

      +--------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------------+------------+-------------+---------------------------------+
      | Sample                                                             |   MCUBoot ROM |   Application ROM |   Factory data |   Settings |   Total ROM |   Total RAM (incl. static HEAP) |
      +====================================================================+===============+===================+================+============+=============+=================================+
      | :ref:`Light Bulb <matter_light_bulb_sample>` (Debug)               |            28 |               794 |              4 |         32 |         858 |                             185 |
      +--------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------------+------------+-------------+---------------------------------+

>       | :ref:`Light Bulb <matter_light_bulb_sample>` (Lto debug)           |            28 |               732 |              4 |         32 |         796 |                             189 |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      | :ref:`Light Bulb <matter_light_bulb_sample>` (LTO, Debug)           |            28 |               732 |              4 |         32 |         796 |                             189 |
```

`Debug` and `Release` are established terms, and LTO is just an additional build feature

      +--------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------------+------------+-------------+---------------------------------+
      | :ref:`Light Bulb <matter_light_bulb_sample>` (Release)             |            28 |               691 |              4 |         32 |         755 |                             179 |
      +--------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------------+------------+-------------+---------------------------------+
      | :ref:`Light Switch <matter_light_switch_sample>` (Debug)           |            28 |               757 |              4 |         32 |         821 |                             176 |
      +--------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------------+------------+-------------+---------------------------------+

>       | :ref:`Light Switch <matter_light_switch_sample>` (Lto debug)       |            28 |               693 |              4 |         32 |         757 |                             180 |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      | :ref:`Light Switch <matter_light_switch_sample>` (LTO, Debug)      |            28 |               693 |              4 |         32 |         757 |                             180 |
```

Debug and Release are established terms, and LTO is just an additional build feature

      +--------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------------+------------+-------------+---------------------------------+
      | :ref:`Light Switch <matter_light_switch_sample>` (Release)         |            28 |               654 |              4 |         32 |         718 |                             169 |
      +--------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------------+------------+-------------+---------------------------------+
      | :ref:`Lock <matter_lock_sample>` (Debug)                           |            28 |               770 |              4 |         32 |         834 |                             177 |
      +--------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------------+------------+-------------+---------------------------------+

>       | :ref:`Lock <matter_lock_sample>` (Lto debug)                       |            28 |               705 |              4 |         32 |         769 |                             181 |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      | :ref:`Lock <matter_lock_sample>` (LTO, Debug)                       |            28 |               705 |              4 |         32 |         769 |                             181 |
```

`Debug` and `Release` are established terms, and `LTO` is just an additional build feature

      +--------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------------+------------+-------------+---------------------------------+
      | :ref:`Lock <matter_lock_sample>` (Release)                         |            28 |               654 |              4 |         32 |         718 |                             172 |
      +--------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------------+------------+-------------+---------------------------------+
      | :ref:`Template <matter_template_sample>` (Debug)                   |            28 |               710 |              4 |         32 |         774 |                             174 |
      +--------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------------+------------+-------------+---------------------------------+

>       | :ref:`Template <matter_template_sample>` (Lto debug)               |            28 |               653 |              4 |         32 |         717 |                             178 |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      | :ref:`Template <matter_template_sample>` (LTO Debug)               |            28 |               653 |              4 |         32 |         717 |                             178 |
```
like before. Also:
- has template LTO Release variant been dropped intentionally? I guess it was meant to demonstrate the very minimum usage for Matter.
- is adding LTO Debug variant for all samples intentional?

Author: There is an issue in our script and LTO variant is not generated properly, I'm investigating it. The LTO release variant was not dropped intentionally, memory requirements table updating is still in progress. Regarding Debug LTO variants, yes it was intentional to have it, but we can discuss it f2f. :)

Reviewer 3: ok, I was just double checking, but if it was intentional then that's fine with me :)

Author: Regarding the LTO release variant, we decided to not include it in the 2.7.0 release scope, but we're planning to add it once the LTO becomes no experimental. For now, we go with LTO + debug only.

>       | :ref:`Template <matter_template_sample>` (Lto debug)               |            28 |               653 |              4 |         32 |         717 |                             178 |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      | :ref:`Template <matter_template_sample>` (LTO, Debug)              |            28 |               653 |              4 |         32 |         717 |                             178 |
```

`Debug` and `Release` are established terms, and `LTO` is just an additional build feature

      +--------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------------+------------+-------------+---------------------------------+
      | :ref:`Template <matter_template_sample>` (Release)                 |            28 |               615 |              4 |         32 |         679 |                             168 |
      +--------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------------+------------+-------------+---------------------------------+
      | :ref:`Thermostat <matter_thermostat_sample>` (Debug)               |            28 |               761 |              4 |         32 |         825 |                             175 |
      +--------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------------+------------+-------------+---------------------------------+

>       | :ref:`Thermostat <matter_thermostat_sample>` (Lto debug)           |            28 |               696 |              4 |         32 |         760 |                             179 |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      | :ref:`Thermostat <matter_thermostat_sample>` (LTO, Debug)          |            28 |               696 |              4 |         32 |         760 |                             179 |
```

`Debug` and `Release` are established terms, and `LTO` is just an additional build feature

      +--------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------------+------------+-------------+---------------------------------+
      | :ref:`Thermostat <matter_thermostat_sample>` (Release)             |            28 |               652 |              4 |         32 |         716 |                             169 |
      +--------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------------+------------+-------------+---------------------------------+
      | :ref:`Window Covering <matter_window_covering_sample>` (Debug)     |            28 |               742 |              4 |         32 |         806 |                             175 |
      +--------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------------+------------+-------------+---------------------------------+

>       | :ref:`Window Covering <matter_window_covering_sample>` (Lto debug) |            28 |               680 |              4 |         32 |         744 |                             178 |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      | :ref:`Window Covering <matter_window_covering_sample>` (LTO, Debug) |            28 |               680 |              4 |         32 |         744 |                             178 |
```

`Debug` and `Release` are established terms, and `LTO` is just an additional build feature

   west build -b nrf7002dk/nrf5340/cpuapp -t partition_manager_report

Diagnostic logs RAM memory requirements
=======================================

> :ref:`Diagnostic logs support<matter_configuration_diagnostic_logs>` requires the new configuration of the RAM memory to add three new retained partitions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:ref:`Diagnostic logs support<matter_configuration_diagnostic_logs>` requires changing the RAM memory layout by adding three retained RAM partitions.
```

> The :ref:`matter_diagnostic_logs_snippet` adds the new RAM partitions which are configured as retained to keep the log data persistent and survive the device reboot.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The :ref:`matter_diagnostic_logs_snippet` adds these RAM partitions which are configured as retained to keep the log data persistent across the device reboots.
```

> They also reduce the SRAM size of the Application core according to the size of the retained partition.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The snippet also reduces the SRAM region available for the application by the size of the retained partitions.
```

Reviewer 2: I want to suggest "reduces the amount of SRAM available for the application". Region is fairly vague in the context

You can adjust the retained partitions for your needs by editing the :ref:`matter_diagnostic_logs_snippet` snippet devicetree file for relevant board.

> The following tabs shows the RAM memory division defined for the default configuration of the :ref:`matter_diagnostic_logs_snippet` for each development kits.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following tabs shows the RAM memory layout defined for the default configuration of the :ref:`matter_diagnostic_logs_snippet` for each development kit.
```

Reviewer 2: There are multiple additional usages of the term "division" in this doc. I prefer every instance be changed to layout as it explains the birdseye view. Division is a trait internal to the layout

> The following tabs shows the RAM memory layout defined for the default configuration of the :ref:`ug_matter_diagnostic_logs_snippet` for each development kit.

Reviewer 3: nit:
```suggestion
The following tabs show the RAM memory layout defined for the default configuration of the :ref:`ug_matter_diagnostic_logs_snippet` for each development kit.
```

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: nRF52840 DK

>     The following RAM memory division is valid for Matter applications running on the :ref:`nRF52840 DK <programming_board_names>` (:ref:`nrf52840dk_nrf52840 <zephyr:nrf52840dk_nrf52840>`).

Reviewer 3: I think Frank wanted all `division` replaced with `layout`.

Author: Right

   west build -b nrf7002dk/nrf5340/cpuapp -t partition_manager_report

Diagnostic logs RAM memory requirements
=======================================

> :ref:`Diagnostic logs support<ug_matter_configuration_diagnostic_logs>` requires changing the RAM memory layout by adding three retained RAM partitions.
> The :ref:`ug_matter_diagnostic_logs_snippet` adds these RAM partitions which are configured as retained to keep the log data persistent across the device reboots.
> The snippet also reduces the amount of SRAM available for the application by the size of the retained partitions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:ref:`Diagnostic logs support<ug_matter_configuration_diagnostic_logs>` requires changing the RAM memory layout by adding three retained RAM partitions to keep the log data persistent across device reboots.
The :ref:`ug_matter_diagnostic_logs_snippet` adds these RAM partitions, and also reduces the amount of SRAM available for the application by the size of the retained partitions.
```

> You can adjust the retained partitions for your needs by editing the :ref:`ug_matter_diagnostic_logs_snippet` snippet devicetree file for relevant board.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can adjust the retained partitions for your needs by editing the :ref:`ug_matter_diagnostic_logs_snippet` devicetree file for relevant board.
```
